developer-library/micronaut-oci-atp/introduction/introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

This workshop is for Java Developers looking to start building applications with Micronaut and Oracle Cloud with Autonomous Database. The workshop features several labs that walk you through the
steps to get going with Micronaut, Helidon, and Oracle Cloud.

Estimated Workshop Time: 120 minutes

### About Micronaut

Micronaut is an innovative new server side Java technology that precomputes your framework infrastructure at compilation time. Micronaut can be combined with GraalVM Native Image to build native applications
that utilize very little memory and resources thanks to its reflection free nature.

Micronaut also includes a persistence framework called Micronaut Data that precomputes your SQL queries at compilation name making it a great fit for working with Autonmous Database.

  <!-- [Video](youtube:zNKxJjkq0Pw) -->

Helidon is an Oracle implementation of MicroProfile specification and is used in this lab as a pre-built service to show interaction between heterogeneous microservices.

### Objectives

This 2-hour lab walks you through the steps to use Micronaut, Micronaut Data
and Oracle Cloud to connected to an Oracle Database.

Lab: Generate SSH Keys
Lab: Provision OCI Resources (OCI VM, VCN and Autonomous Database)
Lab: Build an app with Micronaut and Micronaut Data
Lab: Call a Helidon services from Micronaut
Lab: Deploy your app on an Oracle Cloud VM
Lab: Terminate and Destroy OCI Resources

### Prerequisites
- An Oracle Cloud account, Free Trial, LiveLabs or a Paid account
- Understanding of the Java programming language
- [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io/download.html)
- JDK 11 or above installed locally
- An IDE such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/#section=mac)

## More Information
- [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io/)
- [Helidon](https://helidon.io/)

## Acknowledgements
- **Owners** - Graeme Rocher, Architect, Oracle Labs - Databases and Optimization
- **Contributors** - Chris Bensen, Todd Sharp, Eric Sedlar
- **Last Updated By** - Kay Malcolm, DB Product Management, August 2020

## See an issue?
Please submit feedback using this [form](https://apexapps.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=133:1:::::P1_FEEDBACK:1). Please include the *workshop name*, *lab* and *step* in your request.  If you don't see the workshop name listed, please enter it manually. If you would like for us to follow up with you, enter your email in the *Feedback Comments* section.

Commit message:

Updated GG4BD Workshop
Made changes to the Big Data Workshop- Grouping needs to be done

developer-library/micronaut-oci-atp/introduction/introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

## About this Workshop
This workshop is for Java Developers looking to start building applications with Micronaut and Oracle Cloud with Autonomous Database. The workshop features several labs that walk you through the
steps to get going with Micronaut, Helidon, and Oracle Cloud.

Estimated Workshop Time: 120 minutes

### About Micronaut and Helidon

Micronaut is an innovative new server side Java technology that precomputes your framework infrastructure at compilation time. Micronaut can be combined with GraalVM Native Image to build native applications
that utilize very little memory and resources thanks to its reflection free nature.

Micronaut also includes a persistence framework called Micronaut Data that precomputes your SQL queries at compilation name making it a great fit for working with Autonomous Database.

  <!-- [Video](youtube:zNKxJjkq0Pw) -->

Helidon is an Oracle implementation of MicroProfile specification and is used in this lab as a pre-built service to show interaction between heterogeneous microservices.

### Objectives

This 2-hour lab walks you through the steps to use Micronaut, Micronaut Data
and Oracle Cloud to connected to an Oracle Database.

- Lab: Generate SSH Keys
- Lab: Provision OCI Resources (OCI VM, VCN and Autonomous Database)
- Lab: Get setup to develop a Micronaut application locally
- Lab: Build an app with Micronaut and Micronaut Data
- Lab: Call a Helidon services from Micronaut
- Lab: Deploy your app on an Oracle Cloud VM
- Lab: Terminate and Destroy OCI Resources

### Prerequisites
- An Oracle Cloud account, Free Trial, LiveLabs or a Paid account
- Understanding of the Java programming language
- [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io/download.html)
- JDK 11 or above installed locally
- An IDE such as [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/#section=mac)

## More Information
- [Micronaut](https://micronaut.io/)
- [Helidon](https://helidon.io/)

## Acknowledgements
- **Owners** - Graeme Rocher, Architect, Oracle Labs - Databases and Optimization
- **Contributors** - Chris Bensen, Todd Sharp, Eric Sedlar
- **Last Updated By** - Kay Malcolm, DB Product Management, August 2020

## See an issue?
Please submit feedback using this [form](https://apexapps.oracle.com/pls/apex/f?p=133:1:::::P1_FEEDBACK:1). Please include the *workshop name*, *lab* and *step* in your request.  If you don't see the workshop name listed, please enter it manually. If you would like for us to follow up with you, enter your email in the *Feedback Comments* section.
